Hypergraph Modularities and Clustering

François Théberge, TIMC and University of Ottawa

Several graph clustering algorithms rely on the graph modularity measure to find good partitions of the vertices. 
In the first part of the talk, we briefly review graph modularity and how it relates to the Chung-Lu model. 
We show that the Chung-Lu model can be naturally extended to hypergraphs, leading to new definitions of hypergraph modularity. 
We present a simple hypergraph clustering algorithm based on one such definition.
Next, we re-visit the commonly used definitions of graph and hypergraph Laplacian, as they appear in unsupervised 
and semi-supervised problems. For hypergraphs, we show that it is equivalent to a random walk on the vertices, 
leading to a re-definition of the problems on weighted graphs. This approach has been proposed recently to define a 
pseudo-hypergraph modularity, which can be used in graph-based clustering algorithms such as the Louvain algorithm. 
We discuss this approach, as well as other ideas and open questions.

---

Comparing Graph Embeddings

François Théberge, TIMC and University of Ottawa

graph embedding is a mapping of the vertices of a graph into k-dimensional vectors. 
Good embeddings should capture the graph topology and vertex-to-vertex relationship. 
Several graph embedding algorithms are available and for each algorithm, parameters need to be set 
such as the dimension of the embedding space. As a result, selecting the best embedding is a 
challenging task and very often requires domain experts. We propose an unsupervised framework for 
the computation of divergence scores to compare the quality of different embeddings for a given graph, 
where quality is defined as preserving the community structure. The framework relies on two main ingredients: 
(i) a good, stable graph clustering algorithm, and (ii) a generalization of the Chung-Lu model for graphs 
which incorporates the geometry provided by the graph embedding. In order to validate our framework, 
we ran a large number of experiments with synthetic networks as well as real-world networks, using various 
embedding algorithms. We will also discuss open questions such as possible extensions to hypergraphs.

